UQ Anthropology Museum software
===============================

Funded by ANDS Data Capture DC4F "3D Anthropological and Archeological
Collections" project


Background
----------

This project is one of five Data Capture projects being undertaken at the
University of Queensland by the eResearch Lab within the School of ITEE.
It involves a collaboration between the eResearch Lab and the UQ
Anthropology Museum.

The UQ Anthropology Museum houses a significant collection of ethnographic
material, numbering 19,000 artefacts and 5000 photographs. It is the
largest university collection of ethnographic material and visual culture
in Australia and includes unique and rare items. Just under half of the
collection comprises objects created by, or relating to, Aboriginal
Australian culture groups and individuals. An equally large section of the
collection is derived from, or concerned with, diverse Pacific peoples.
There are also smaller complementary collections from Africa, South-East
Asia and China. The collection has expanded since its establishment in
1948, due to donations, bequests, purchases and student and staff 
contributions.

The Museum collection is a valuable and relevant teaching and research
resource for academics, students and the public. It is an important source
of cultural heritage for many individuals and communities including
scholarly academic researchers and students, native title, family history
researchers and other interested members of the public.

To date the museum’s catalogue (consisting of metadata describing the
individual artefacts) has comprised a Microsoft Access database that is
only accessible from within the museum. The Museum doesn’t currently
provide any online interface to the catalogue or digitized objects from
the collection. However, over the past 2 years, the museum has gradually
been building up a collection of 2D digital photos and 3D digital
representations of artefacts from the museum’s collection, through a
digitization and laser scanning program.

Aim
---

The aim of this project is to convert the existing Microsoft Access
catalogue into an online database which is extensible and searchable via a
Web front-end and to enable any digitized objects/photos to be linked and
accessible via the search interface. In addition, the aim is to enable the
descriptions of the artefacts in the Museum to be published and
discoverable via both the UQ Collections Registry and Research Data
Australia.
